---
layout: post
title: "A/B Testing Will Save Your Career"
date: 2012-07-21 17:36
comments: true
published: false
categories: 
---

A company is the sum of hundreds of decisions made daily about product,
marketing, hiring, etc.  The magnitude of each decision varies, but it's rare to
find one (or several) that is single-handedly responsible for your business'
success or failure.  What matters is the average: on the whole, does your
business get more decisions right than wrong?

It's tempting to conclude that the best company is the one with people with the
best natural intuition.  These people, blessed with divine judgment, will carve
market-winning products directly out of stone, while their competitors misfire
and inevitably fall behind.

In such a scenario, people with below-average intuition must be ruthlessly
culled in order to maintain above-market performance.  As an employee of this
company, each decision you make carries the weight of your future career on its
shoulders. You better not fuck up!

And yet, we all know that intuition is fallible, and mistakes inevitable.  So
how do you manage your career?

One option is to be lucky. (If you're lucky, you can stop reading here.)

Another option is to embrace A/B testing.  A/B testing directs the conversation
away from politics and intuition, and toward data-driven learning and consensus.
In an A/B testing culture, your intuition is not your most prized asset.
Rather, your value comes from your ability to brainstorm, define and execute
experiments.  Instead of focusing on being right, and approaching decisions with
dread, you can focus on learning as much as possible by rapidly exploring
different solutions to the areas of your business and product you are working
on.

One result of A/B testing is never making decisions that are quantitatively
poor.  But this is a side effect rather than a primary goal.  Your company's
success is the sum of many decisions over months and years.  These decisions
will be made by human beings.  A/B testing focuses these people on the process
of learning and building organizational intuition.  It enables people to propose
ideas that may sound silly or dumb without fear of retribution.  And it enables
people to gracefully accept defeat when their idea is rejected by data.  By
focusing decisions around testing and data, highly intelligent people can work
together for much longer periods without political infighting.

As an individual contributor, you are ultimately judged by your impact.  If you
use your own judgment to make decisions, you will be graded on your intuition.
But if you focus on learning via testing, you will be graded not on intuition,
but by the velocity of your experimentation.  Unless you're lucky, testing
affords you much more control of the outcome.
